Added comprehensive guide on using Ghost with Astro (#2269)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/cms/ghost.mdx

3. **Content API Key** - You can make an integration under your site's `Settings > Integrations`. From there you can find your `Content API key`

### Setting up credentials

To add your site's credentials to Astro, create an `.env` file in the root of your project with the following variables:

```ini title=".env"
CONTENT_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
```

Now, you should be able to use these environment variables in your project. 

If you would like to have IntelliSense for your environment variable, you can create a `env.d.ts` file in the `src/` directory and configure `ImportMetaEnv` like this:

```ts title="src/env.d.ts"
interface ImportMetaEnv {
  readonly CONTENT_API_KEY: string;
}
```
:::tip
Read more about [using environment variables](/en/guides/environment-variables/) and `.env` files in Astro.
:::

Your root directory should now include these new files:

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
  - **env.d.ts**
- **.env**
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

### Installing dependencies

To connect with your Contentful space, install both of the following using the single command below for your preferred package manager:

> - [`@tryghost/content-api`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tryghost/content-api), the official content API wrapper for JavaScript

Author: HAHAHAA I got caught stealing :sweat_smile: I'll fix these ASAP

    version: 'v5.0',
});

```

Here, we first initialize an API instance with the Ghost API. Using the API key we got from our dashboard's Integrations page.

### Displaying a list of posts

The page `src/pages/index.astro` lists each post, with a description and link to its own page.

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
 - lib/
    - api.ts
  - pages/
    - **index.astro**
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

In the Astro frontmatter, we first import our API instance. This would allow us to use the `posts.browse()` method to brows the posts. We're setting the `limit` to `all` to get all of our blog posts.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { api } from '../lib/api';
const posts = await api.posts
    .browse({
        limit: 'all',
    })
    .catch((err) => {
        console.error(err);
    });
---
```

Fetching post via the content API returns an object that includes the properties:
- `title` - Contains the title of the post
- `html` - Contains the HTML rendering of the content of the post
- `feature_image` - Contains the source URL of the featured image of the post
- `slug` - Contains the slug of the post

Now, we can render our posts to HTML.

> ```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { api } from '../lib/api';
const posts = await api.posts
    .browse({
        limit: 'all',
    })
    .catch((err) => {
        console.error(err);
    });
---

```

<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Astro + Ghost 👻</title>
    </head>
    <body>

        {
            posts.map((post) => (
                <>
                    <a href={`/post/${post.slug}`}>
                        <h1> {post.title} </h1>
                    </a>
                </>
            ))
        }
    </body>
</html>
```

> ### Using the Ghost Content API to generate pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generating pages
```

The page `src/pages/post/[slug].astro` [dynamically generates a page](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) for each post.

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
 - lib/
    - api.ts
  - pages/
    - index.astro
    - post/
      - **[slug].astro**
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

> Just like the [index page](#displaying-a-list-of-posts), we'll first import our API instance. Following which, we'll have access to the `posts.browse()` method.
> 
> Here, we're getting the posts and returning each single post in the [props](/en/tutorial/5-astro-api/2/#use-props-in-dynamic-routes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import the API to access blog posts using `posts.browse()` and return a post as props to each of your dynamic routes. 
```

```astro title="src/pages/post/[slug].astro"
---
import { api } from '../../lib/api';

> // getStaticPaths() is required for static Astro sites
> // if using SSR, you will not need this function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's split these up into 2 versions, like the other guides. If you're using SSG and if you're using SSR.

export async function getStaticPaths() {
    const posts = await api.posts
        .browse({
            limit: 'all',
        })
        .catch((err) => {
            console.error(err);
        });

    return posts.map((post) => {
        return {
            params: {
                slug: post.slug,
            },
            props: {
                post: post,
            },
        };
    });
}

const { post } = Astro.props;
---
```

> Now, we can render the post in HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the template for each page using the properties of each `post` object.
```

```astro 

> <!DOCTYPE html>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
import { api } from '../../lib/api';
export async function getStaticPaths() {
    const posts = await api.posts
        .browse({
            limit: 'all',
        })
        .catch((err) => {
            console.error(err);
        });
    return posts.map((post) => {
        return {
            params: {
                slug: post.slug,
            },
            props: {
                post: post,
            },
        };
    });
}
const { post } = Astro.props;
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
```

title: Ghost & Astro
description: Add content to your Astro project using Ghost as a CMS
layout: ~/layouts/CMSLayout.astro
stub: false
service: Ghost
---

import FileTree from '~/components/FileTree.astro'
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

[Ghost](https://github.com/TryGhost/Ghost) is an open-source, headless content management system built on Node.js.

## Integrating with Astro
In this section, we’ll use the [Ghost content API](https://ghost.org/docs/content-api/) to bring your data into your Astro project.

### Prerequisites
To get started you will need to have the following: 

1. **An Astro project** - If you don't have an Astro project yet, our [Installation guide](/en/install/auto/) will get you up and running in no time.

> 2. **A Ghost site** - It is assumed that you have a site set up with Ghost. If you don't you can set one up on a [local environmen.](https://ghost.org/docs/install/local/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **A Ghost site** - It is assumed that you have a site set up with Ghost. If you don't you can set one up on a [local environment.](https://ghost.org/docs/install/local/)
```

3. **Content API Key** - You can make an integration under your site's `Settings > Integrations`. From there you can find your `Content API key`

### Setting up credentials

To add your site's credentials to Astro, create an `.env` file in the root of your project with the following variable:

```ini title=".env"
CONTENT_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY

> 

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
```

Now, you should be able to use this environment variable in your project.

``````

### Prerequisites

1. A Ghost blog 
2. An Astro project integrated with the [Ghost content API](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tryghost/content-api) - See [integrating with Astro](/en/guides/cms/ghost/#integrating-with-astro) for more details on how to set up an Astro project with Ghost.

This example will create an index page that lists posts with links to dynamically-generated individual post pages.

### Fetching Data

You can fetch your site's data with the Ghost content API package.

First, create an `api.ts` file under a `lib` directory.

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
  - lib/
    - **api.ts**
  - pages/
    - index.astro
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

Initialize an API instance with the Ghost API using the API key from the Ghost dashboard's Integrations page.

```ts title="src/lib/api.ts"

import GhostContentAPI from '@tryghost/content-api';

// Create API instance with site credentials
export const api = new GhostContentAPI({
    url: 'http://localhost:2368', // This is the URL if your site is running on a local environment
    key: import.meta.env.CONTENT_API_KEY,
    version: 'v5.0',
});

```

### Displaying a list of posts

> The page `src/pages/index.astro` will list post, with a description and link to its own page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The page `src/pages/index.astro` will display a list of posts, each with a description and link to its own page.
```

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
 - lib/
    - api.ts
  - pages/
    - **index.astro**
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

Import the API in the Astro frontmatter to use the `posts.browse()` method to access blog posts from Ghost. Set `limit: all` to retrieve all posts.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { api } from '../lib/api';
const posts = await api.posts
    .browse({
        limit: 'all',
    })
    .catch((err) => {
        console.error(err);
    });
---
```

> Fetching via the content API returns an array of objects with the following properties for each post:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetching via the content API returns an array of objects to access [properties for each post](https://ghost.org/docs/content-api/#posts) including:
```

> Fetching via the content API returns an array of object that includes the following properties for each post:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetching via the content API returns an array of objects with the following properties for each post:
```

- `title` - the title of the post
- `html` - the HTML rendering of the content of the post
- `feature_image` - the source URL of the featured image of the post
- `slug` - the slug of the post

Use the `posts` array returned from the fetch to display a list of blog posts on the page.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { api } from '../lib/api';
const posts = await api.posts
    .browse({
        limit: 'all',
    })
    .catch((err) => {
        console.error(err);
    });
---

<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Astro + Ghost 👻</title>
    </head>
    <body>

        {
            posts.map((post) => (

>                 <>
>                     <a href={`/post/${post.slug}`}>
>                         <h1> {post.title} </h1>
>                     </a>
>                 </>

Reviewer 2: we can remove fragments here since they are not needed

```suggestion
                <a href={`/post/${post.slug}`}>
                    <h1> {post.title} </h1>
                </a>
```

            ))
        }
    </body>
</html>
```

### Generating pages

The page `src/pages/post/[slug].astro` [dynamically generates a page](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) for each post.

<FileTree title="Project Structure">
- src/
 - lib/
    - api.ts
  - pages/
    - index.astro
    - post/
      - **[slug].astro**
- astro.config.mjs
- package.json
</FileTree>

Import the API to access blog posts using `posts.browse()` and return a post as props to each of your dynamic routes. 

```astro title="src/pages/post/[slug].astro"
---
import { api } from '../../lib/api';

export async function getStaticPaths() {
    const posts = await api.posts
        .browse({
            limit: 'all',
        })
        .catch((err) => {
            console.error(err);
        });

    return posts.map((post) => {
        return {
            params: {
                slug: post.slug,
            },
            props: {
                post: post,
            },
        };
    });
}

const { post } = Astro.props;
---
```

Create the template for each page using the properties of each `post` object.

> ```astro 

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
```astro title="src/pages/post/[slug].astro" ins={24-37}
``````

---
import { api } from '../../lib/api';
export async function getStaticPaths() {
    const posts = await api.posts
        .browse({
            limit: 'all',
        })
        .catch((err) => {
            console.error(err);
        });
    return posts.map((post) => {
        return {
            params: {
                slug: post.slug,
            },
            props: {
                post: post,
            },
        };
    });
}
const { post } = Astro.props;
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>{post.title}</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <img src={post.feature_image} alt={post.title} />

        <h1>{post.title}</h1>

>         <p>{post.reading_time} min read</p> <!-- This property returns the estimated reading time in minutes -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <p>{post.reading_time} min read</p>
```

        <Fragment set:html={post.html} />
    </body>
</html>
```
:::note

> `<Fragment />` is a built in Astro component which allows you to avoid an unnecessary wrapper element. This can be especially useful when fetching HTML from a CMS (e.g. Ghost or [WordPress](/en/guides/cms/wordpress/)).

Reviewer 3: Missing hypen
```suggestion
`<Fragment />` is a built-in Astro component which allows you to avoid an unnecessary wrapper element. This can be especially useful when fetching HTML from a CMS (e.g. Ghost or [WordPress](/en/guides/cms/wordpress/)).
```
